---
layout: post
title:  Exercise 4 - Don’t Crash! Tailing Behaviour
redirect_from:
- /exercise-4
---

This lab was a hard sprint right from the start. Despite the overall
implementation being much more obvious than the straightforward than all
previous labs, we experienced many difficulties stemming from the real-time
nature of this lab.

<iframe
      width="100%"
      height="315"
      src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/9q5b_eB7rlk" title="YouTube video player"
      frameborder="0"
      allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share"
      allowfullscreen>
</iframe>

A video of our Duckiebot safely driving around the town behind another Duckiebot (controlled with keyboard controls). Observe our Duckiebot taking a right hand turn and left hand turn at the intersections and driving at least two full laps of the town.
"It was just a fluke"

## Strategy

Our strategy centres around a state machine. We use the following states:

 - Lane Following: Runs lane following node. This is the default when we lose
   track of the bot ahead
 - Stopping: We approach a red line and come to a halt. While we wait, we look
   for a bot ahead of us to decide which way to turn
 - Tracking: We follow the robot in front of us
 - Blind movements: We override the lane following to force a turn/forward
   across the intersection to follow the bot based on where we observed it
   turning while stopped

Our state machine starts off lane following, then switches to tracking when it
sees the bot and back when it loses it. The stopping state takes precedence over
both of these states, so the bot will unconditionally stop when seeing a red
line. The blind states only last for a few seconds each, though also get a "stop
immunity" where the bot ignores all red lines. This is important when going
through an intersection, otherwise we'd stop in the middle of the intersection
by seeing the red line from the other line.

Check out the diagram below!

Our LEDs sort of indicate the state... though they're very delayed sometimes due
to duckiebot driver issues, so take them with a grain of salt. Blue only happens
when the bot stops or moves backward while tracking.

Aside from the contour-masking code for the yellow lane from the previous lab,
the new sensors in this one come from

 1. Detecting the grid on the back of another duckiebot
 2. Using the time-of-flight (TOF) sensor to detect distance

We initially struggled to get the TOF to integrate well with the distance
transform we were getting from the grid-tracking-camera node. For some reason
the two gave very different distances. To resolve this, we plotted them again
each other and fitted a line to the points. Using the slope, of this line, we
were able to convert between both measurements, allowing us to fuse both
sensors. We found TOF particularly important at close distances, where the
camera could no longer fully see the grid on the back. The camera provided a far
great field-of-view, which is exactly when the TOF lost distance measures, so
the two sensors were able to cover for the weaknesses of the other. When both
were sensing, we took a weighted average to get an even more accurate estimate.

## Discussion

Our duckiebot managed to follow the bot ahead very nicely in a straight line.
When it wasn't lagging, the LEDs provided a great way to introspect our state,
which made it much easier for the person doing keyboard_control on the bot in
front. With extensive tuning, our PID stopped the wobbles and kicks coming from
the P and D terms respectively.

The biggest challenge were the turns at the intersections. Here, our bot had to
keep a backlog of the latest positions its seen from the bot ahead, while also
making sure none of those measurements are irregular or stale. We modified our
detection publisher to publish the entire transformation matrix from the camera
to the grid on the back, which let see the angle in the pose of the grid. Using
this information, we could predict which direction the bot in front of us turned
or if it had gone forward.


### How well did your implemented strategy work?



### Was it reliable?

Overall our strategy was fairly reliable, as it's able to drive around the town
without crashing into other Duckiebots and tail another Duckiebot autonomously
at a safe distance. Furthermore, it also follows the rules of the road by
driving within the lanes, stays on the right side of the road, stopping at
intersections, and blinking the appropriate rear LED to signal turns.

### In what situations did it perform poorly?

Sometimes, our camera node fails to detect a turn at an intersection. This
especially happens on sharp turns, where the camera might capture a frame right
before the bot ahead turns and when it's already perpendicular to the camera.
This makes us lose any information about the angle the bot ahead turned at,
which makes it hard to plan a turn, so we default to lane following in these
uncertain times.

## Sources

 - [Starting Template](https://github.com/XZPshaw/CMPUT412503_exercise4)
 - [Lane Follow
   Package](https://eclass.srv.ualberta.ca/mod/resource/view.php?id=6952069)
 - [ros
   cv_bridge](http://wiki.ros.org/cv_bridge/Tutorials/ConvertingBetweenROSImagesAndOpenCVImagesPython)
 - [rospy tf library](http://wiki.ros.org/tf)
 - [rospy shutdown
   hooks](https://wiki.ros.org/rospy/Overview/Initialization%20and%20Shutdown#Registering_shutdown_hooks)
 - [duckietown/dt-duckiebot-interface/blob/daffy/packages/tof_driver/src/tof_node.py](https://github.com/duckietown/dt-duckiebot-interface/blob/daffy/packages/tof_driver/src/tof_node.py)
